So now that the skin and the tailbone
have been removed,
we're actually going to start working on
getting these bones out of here.
So the first bone I'm going to take out
is the aitch bone that we used as a marker
to remove the loin from the leg.
But on top of that aitch bone,
there's this muscle right here
that's known as the oyster
or the spider steak.
More specifically talking about beef,
but I'm sure that we can
we can coax it out and maybe get a couple
for a sandwich later on if we wanted to.
It just cradled
right in on top of that aitch bone.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to follow the shape of that aitch bone.
And I'm just going to bring my knife under
and remove it like so.
So as you can see, that aitch
bone has a bit of a curve to it.
Truth be told,
the aitch bone is actually sitting mostly
on like a 90 degree angle
cradled right on top of that femur bone.
So the femoral head of the bone is right
underneath this section here.
So I need to work this bone out this aitch
bone out
by trying to obviously minimize
the amount of meat that comes off
with the bone and not damaging the muscles
that are around the aitch bone,
probably one of the trickier bones
to get out.
In all honesty.
So how I'm going to do it is again,
I'll use my reverse grip
and I would like to trace out the bone
first and foremost.
So I'll start up here.
I'll just bring it around like so.
And by removing that oyster steak
or that spider steak,
that allows me to actually have
a better visual line of sight on it.
So it kind of removes
a lot of the mystery.
We're trying to bone that out.
So again, what we're seeing here
is how it's kind of cradled
right on top of that femur, right?
So the femoral head being where it is,
there's actually a very strong tendon
that connects the two bones together.
So I need to remove that before I can even
think about removing the aitch bone.
So what I like to do
is I'll pull that aitch bone like so
and I'll just get in there with the tip
of my knife and I'll remove it.
So now the two have been separated.
Now I can actually start
fishing this bone out.
So because my fingers are in such close
proximity to my boning knife,
I just really want to be aware
of where my hand is
as I'm making these cuts
because I'm going to be in there
with just the tip of my knife
so I can use this hole
that's in the aitch bone
as a bit of leverage
so I can pull the bone away
as I'm cutting.
So I just work my way around that cut
that the femoral head was in
and I can just work that bone.
So you'll see it does have a
little bit of a wonky shape to it
when it comes out.
There's a bit of a nub down here
for lack of a better term.
The head of the femoral bone was in
and we've got the hole
that we use for leverage.
So there's our aitch bone being removed.